For my final project, I am going to work on my materials for my qualifying exam in the Linguistics department. The project will be created on PsychoPy and will run online using Pavlovia. My experiment is composed of 4 parts: the main linguistic paradigm, which uses a directed forgetting paradigm that includes a training phase and a testing phase that prompts the participant to provide a keyboard input, an English LexTALE task to measure participant's English profiency, an Author Recognition task to measure participant's exposure to print English, and a language background questionnaire.

250 word abstract:

Forgetting can be beneficial in many contexts, and perhaps unintuitively, in second/additional language (L2) learning as well. L2 learners have been shown to have a deficit in comparison to native speakers of integrating information that has been shown to be incorrect or unacceptable into their linguistic knowledge. This study explores if this deficit originates when learners are asked to forget information by measuring English second language (ESL) learners’ ability to forget words of varying familiarity using an online study. Participants will complete a directed forgetting task, wherein the training phase, participants will be exposed to a mix of easy and difficult 5-7 letter English words, each followed by a cue to either remember the word for the testing phase later in the study or a cue to forget the word. In the testing phase, participants will be asked if they recognize new easy and difficult English words, as well as words that were included during the training phase regardless of their associated remember/forget cue. They will also complete an English LexTALE task to measure English proficiency, an Author Recognition Task to mesure English print exposure, and a language background questionaire. This study is within-subjects with a 2x2 factorial design, and data will be analyzed by English or non-English L1 group. By studying L2 learners’ ability to forget information when explicitly tasked to, we can uncover if word difficulty is a factor when integrating new information into their linguistic knowledge, as well as how native English speakers and ESL learners compare when intentionally forgetting linguistic information. 

Revised 250 word abstract:

Forgetting can be beneficial in many contexts, and perhaps unintuitively, in second/additional language (L2) learning. L2 learners have been shown to have a deficit in comparison to native speakers of integrating information that has been shown to be incorrect or unacceptable into their linguistic knowledge (Tachihara & Goldberg, 2025). This study explores if this deficit originates when learners are asked to forget information by measuring English second language (ESL) learners’ ability to forget words of varying familiarity using an online study. Participants will complete a directed forgetting task, wherein the training phase, participants will be exposed to a mix of easy and difficult 5-7 letter English words, each followed by a cue to either remember the word for the testing phase later in the study (R) or a cue to forget the word (F). In the testing phase, participants will be asked if they recognize new easy and difficult English words, as well as words that were included during the training phase regardless of their associated remember/forget cue. They will also complete an English LexTALE task to measure English proficiency (Lemhöfer & Broersma, 2012), an Author Recognition Task to mesure English print exposure (Stanovich & West, 2017), and a language background questionaire. This study is within-subjects with a 2x2 factorial design. Data will be analyzed by English or non-English L1 group. By studying L2 learners’ ability to forget information when explicitly tasked to, we can uncover if word difficulty is a factor when integrating new information into their linguistic knowledge.

Implementation plan:
- Project uses numpy and time imports
- This tool is important so that randomization of presentation of stimuli, proper counterbalancing across groups, time, and participant inputs are all recorded correctly. Without this tool, randomization of the words in each list and the participants' responses would be much more difficult to track and analyze later.
- This project was coded using the PsychoPy builder view. It is also synched to an online Pavlovia account so that the experiment can run online through the SONA system. This means that some syntax may be using JavaScript logic.
- I have coded the instructions, training phase, testing phase, LexTALE trails, ART trials, and have synched my Pavlovia surveys (a consent form, language background questionnaire, and a debriefing form). I have been working on this project with my PhD advisor since December 2025 so please don't think that I have made all of this progress in one week! 
- I still need to refine the timing for the training phase and add a fixation cross between trials and to remove the screen that says "you are in group __" used for testing.

Documentation:
- Input will be from keyboard presses: either Z for old words or M for new words. In the LexTALE and ART tasks, Y and N are used (Y for yes, N for no).
- Data is exported through a .csv file. Over the next week while my lab is testing the experiment, I will ensure that the .csv file codes all data correctly. I have added a sample .csv data file to the repository.

Test plan:
- I am still not entirely confident that I know what a test plan is because most of the project has been completed, the only major thing I need to test is how the data is output. To do that, I will record myself doing the experiment (e.g., ensuring I have a way to recall which words were cued R or F) and cross-checking that with the .csv output file. Similarly, I will complete my language background questionnaire multiple times with different answers to make sure the logic of the questionnaire flows right and that questions appear correctly.
